The next feature we're going to add to our
Twitter app is the concept of favorites.
And this is going to involve
two mutations because we're
gonna treat favorites as its own resource.
It's sort of a many to many
relationship where you can think of
a favorite as the join table.
Something that refers to both a tweet and
a user where a user can like many tweets
and a tweet can be liked by many users.
It's effectively all this is going to be.
We're going to have to create
these favorite entities and
we'll have to destroy
them when I use unlikes.
So we'll get to practice building
two more simple mutations.
The first thing we are going to have to
do is add a little bit of code to our
GraphQL Schema.
One more type for
this new favorite entity.
So let's copy that, open up our Schema.
And paste it right at the bottom.
So note that favorite has
a relationship with tweet and user and
those are non nullable meaning
we're going to have to populate
those anytime we're returning
a favorite of sorts.
Next, we're going to have to connect
this concept of a favorite to user.
So here we go.
Let's just put it right
here at the bottom.
So a user has a field that's
an array of favorites.
So can somebody help me think about
whether it's possible to have
nodes in this array?
Or whether it's possible for
me to get no back instead of an array?
Is the collection nullable?
And second question, are members of the
collection nullable based on the Schema?
>> Collections novel.
>> And the second part,
>> no,
no,
>> The collection is nullable.
So favorites could be be
null instead of an array.
But if you get an array,
you can rely on the fact that everything
within the array is of type favorite.
That's what this exclamation mark means.
Great, you may also note that we have
like favorite refers to a tweet.
But in this case tweet does
not refer to favorites.
This is actually fine.
This means that potentially
when we're pulling a tweet,
we don't want someone to find the list
of users who have favorited it.
Maybe we only want to expose that
information to the stats object where you
get the count of the favorites.
But maybe in the future a product manager
comes along and says, we want to show
the little face pile of like, have all of
your friends who have liked this thing.
Then we would need to establish
that relationship, but there is
no requirement that you need that symmetry
in order to define the relationship.
This is about your API's contract with
the outside world not necessarily a fully
fleshed out diagram of how your entities
in your database relate to each other.
So important to remember that because in
some cases you don't wanna expose more
information than you need to
All right, last step that that
relates to the GraphQL changes,
we're going to go to our
app react component, and
in this get current user query, we're
going to retrieve the Favorites array.
So here we go,
it's within the current user.
And all we want to get back is so
we want the tweet and
then within the tweet we want the ID.
So this is going to give us an array
back and each item in the array,
is going to be an object
containing a property called ID,
whose value is a string.
Object with an ID in an array.
All right time to run Yarn CodeGen because
we've changed stuff on our client and
our server Yarn.
CodeGen and then on server.
Yarn CodeGen and everything looks good.
So, what this means is I should be
able to I just test this real quick,
make sure everything's wired up.
I turned it from a value to a key just by
adding more destruction to the right of
it, right?
So here we go,
that's what I wanted to see.
It is objects sorry it's more complicated
than I even described previously.
These objects have
a property called tweet and
within that like the value of tweet
is an object containing an ID.
So I did this deliberately because this is
a common pitfall that people experience
with React.
As soon as I show you what this data looks
like, you're likely to ask me question and
that question is,
how do I flatten this down?
It seems like I just want
this array of IDs and
I'm having to effectively map
over this and drill in and
if anything's nullable as you drill in,
you have to deal with that.
GraphQL does not really solve that
problem, it's gonna give you data in
a format that's aligned with
the schema and align with the types.
So I'll show you what I mean.
I'll show you what this data
looks like in its current state.
Actually, we don't have our resolver
I've wait to show you that.
But that is a problem that
Graph QL doesn't solve, and
it's kind of a common complaint that
things get nested in a big way.
All right, let's keep going here.
So we made this change, great.
We ran Yarn CodeGen on both client and
server, great.
Time to add a new transform to our
transforms TS file on the back end.
So let's go to transforms TS and
paste this in and
pull these imports up to the top.
This is a favorite transform, it doesn't
do much but it's good to have there.
Organized imports for that yep it
combined them for me which is great.
So that's all it is.
It's everything about a favorite, except
for that user object and the tweet object.
So it's just sort of passing
through everything else.
Next, let's go and import that
transform into our user resolver.
So it's in the resolvers folder,
User.TS And how are we going to use that?
It's user.favorites.
Do the old restart everything you, okay?
What does this code we just pasted do?
You know what, I'm gonna disable
this lint rule real fast, so
that I can stop having to kick ESLint so
many times
It should be reading from my engines
property, that my version of node is not 8
I think I have to put
that in here overrides.
That's for the server stuff.
We're just gonna turn
this all the way off.
Because something's weird, okay.
Sorry about that little
squashing of an annoyance.
So what does the Favorites resolver do?
Well, it takes in a user as an argument
because the only way that this
is getting called is if we've asked for
user.favorites.
In fact,
it's safe because we're in user resolvers,
that top level user thing will always
be called, like current user, right,
or tweet.author.user but somewhere you're
passing through a user to get to this.
So we're getting the user favourites and
this returns an array of DB favourite.
Then we're mapping over them.
We're transforming them.
We're placing the user into the record.
Remember, this is already the GraphQL
representation is the already
ready to go user that's ready to serve
up the parent node in the graph.
So we can place it right in there,
and then the tweet,
we can get the tweet by ID.
And then we can do a tweet transform here.
So, we have our user and our tweet.
And we should be able to make this
work in our GraphQL studio now.
Let's give it a shot.
All right,
we have one favorite and that ID.
I have to make it easy to see that
we're getting the right things back.
IDs always begin with a hint
of what kind of entity it is.
Let's add a couple other things like,
tweet body.
So there's like you can
see a list of things.
What are the tweets that I favorited?
But let's actually go back and let's look
at what we're really trying to gather here
This is what we're gonna
consume on the client.
So, it's gonna be an array of
objects that have a tweet property,
whose object has an ID property,
that has the string we're interested in.
So, this is sort of that deep nesting
that can get exhausting at times.
And there's really not
much you can do about it.
This is what we deal with
when we work with Graph QL.
It doesn't solve all the problems.
This is it's workable you're an array.map
away from getting what you want so
it's not not too bad.
But it does mean that there's some
complexity and what you get back.
All the more reason that having
those types is important so
that you can feel confident as you drill
in what's there, what might be there and
so you can solve this
yourself more comfortably.
So let's jump on to the UI side and
wire this up.
We're going to be working
in the app.tsx component.
And we're now, finally,
going to get rid of this current
user piece of texture data.
So we're going to pass this
directly into the left side bar.
And this is the only
change that's not trivial.
So, we're mostly gonna just
replace this current user and
snake case all caps with the value
that's really coming from the back end.
This is a case where we
merge two things together.
And this is where we can get away
from that merge entirely because it's
no longer necessary.
Okay so app.tsx find all occurrences
of current user actually
we can start by deleting this fixture
data boom and find all occurrences,
replace with current user, and
then we can get rid of this,
this is nonsense now like
creating a clone of an object and
mixing it into itself doesn't
really make much sense, all right.
Finally we're just gonna have
to reorder some lines, why?
Because we need this get
current user query to kind of
happen first before any of
our destructuring happens.
So I'm just going to kind of move the hook
stuff way up to the top of the function
and everything should work
nicely Let's check out the UI.
So what we expect to see now
that favorites are coming in,
is I believe we'll see numbers next
to the favorite count for every tweet
There's one favorite here, there's four,
this shows that I as a user have
already liked this one right?
Because that's part of getting that array
of Favorites with the tweet IDs for
the current user.
That's what I'm using as we go through and
render the list of tweets.
Is this tweet already favorited?
Here's an array of what the current
user has already favorited.
Is your tweet ID in this list?
If it is, you're favorited, right?
So, great, what we've just
done is now this is live data,
this is coming in and it's live data.
What we have to do next is wire
up that create favorite and
delete favorite mutations.